Excerpt from the Book of the Augurs' Word, Index 15.892. Translated for your convenience.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

And they looked into the sky. Jvor reared his stalyon, ready to pierce the heavens. His
sins would be spread upon the stars, so that the Aratel's Grand Purpose could not bear fruit.

"Hear me, Augurs!" He shouted. And from his string he loosed arrow after arrow. They guided Themselves
to the hearts of the Augurs, and drew from Their bodice golden tears. The tears fell to earth.
They crushed those who commited to percieve, those who still looked on the Traitor Jvor as he
stole the Grand Purpose and twisted it to his own evil ends.

But the tears were not enough. There were still those who watched, who cheered on Jvor. The golden ichor
flowed and flowed as the Augurs weeped at Jvor's betrayal.

"Jvor, we had chosen You. You were meant to guide your people to their greater future. To a place where
all Aratel. Traitor Jvor, how can you do this when you know there is still good to be Redeemed?"

"You expect us to accept succor from your nurturing teat. But it is a lie. The Wiig have shown me the truth, and they
are the Universal Good." Jvor readied his string again. Those that were not crushed had their feet muddied in the
Golden Waters of the Tears of the Augurs. 

"It pains us that you have fallen to such fabrications." The Augurs cried. "Tell us Jvor, is there any good left in you?
Do you care for your people at all?"

Jvor did not hesitate. "No. I do not care for my people. As such things should be. The Grand Aratel is one who cares only
for themselves." And there were those who still cheered. But on hearing his callous words, some began to doubt Jvor's promise.

"Then there is no hope for you or your people, Jvor." The Augurs placed one mighty claw upon Their breast. They let it cut deep,
and let all of their remaining strength pour over Urjvor. The grand empire was drowning. The tears quickly fell to Yvik, and covered
Urjvor completely. The tears of the Augurs suffocated those cheering, and those who refused to speak at all. They all were denied
their place among the Augurs, thanks only to the Traitor Jvor.

Jvor turned only briefly to see the collapse of his empire, of everything he once built. "It means nothing. At least,
I will be free." He readied his string again.

But the Augurs were no where to be found. Jvor searched the sky for their presence, but he could not sense it. Then
he heard the tremors from Yvik below. "We Love you, Jvor. We Love all Aratel. But We cannot allow you to poison
the minds of our Chosen People."

And the Augurs ripped Urjvor from the surface of Yvik. They sent it spiraling towards Jvor. The Traitor was not prepared
for such a display of power, and fell to his knees to plead for mercy. But he was swept away. Up Urjvor went, hurtling
higher and higher into the great sky, until the Augurs brought it to a stop. They let out one solemn scream, Their voice heard
by all Aratel.

"Remember our Grand Purpose. Remember your future. Do not be swayed by the lies of others. Follow our Word and all will be well.
Refuse to follow our Word..." And Yvik was blinded by a great light, unlike any other the Aratel had seen. No one could admit
the majesty of the Augurs into their sight until Yvik had stopped shaking and their sky had dulled. When the light finally
dimmed, they saw an Eye staring at them. An ever vigilant guardian to Watch them, to See them obey. "And you will suffer the
consequences. This Eye represents your promise to Us. Do not take your promises lightly."

And so Yvik's Eye was born. And so the Augurs left, with the Grand Purpose protected. And so cosmic order was restored.